add figure 1 legend (#216)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/03.results.md

### Crowd-sourced Somatic Analysis to create an Open Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas

We previously performed whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WXS), and RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) on matched tumor and normal tissues as well as selected cell lines from 943 patient tumors from the Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas (PBTA) [@doi:10.1093/neuonc/noz192], consisting of samples from the Children’s Brain Tumor Network (CBTN) [@url:https://CBTN.org] and the PNOC003 DMG clinical trial [@doi:10.1002/ijc.32258] of the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-oncology Symposium (PNOC) (**Figure {@fig:Fig1}A**). 

> We then harnessed the benchmarking efforts of the Kids First Data Resource Center to develop a robust and reproducible data analysis workflow within the CAVATICA platform to perform primary somatic analyses: variant calling of single nucleotide variants (SNVs), copy number variants (CNVs), structural variants (SVs), and fusions (**Figure {@fig:FigS1}** - red boxes and **STAR Methods**). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then harnessed the benchmarking efforts of the Kids First Data Resource Center to develop a robust and reproducible data analysis workflow within the CAVATICA platform to perform the following primary somatic analyses: variant calling of single nucleotide variants (SNVs), copy number variants (CNVs), structural variants (SVs), and fusions (**Figure {@fig:FigS1}** - red boxes and **STAR Methods**). 
```

Author: updated

> Next, we created a Github analysis repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis) with continuous integration to ensure analysis reproducibility and a GitHub manuscript repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript) with ManuBot [@url:https://manubot.org/ ; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007128] integration to enable manuscript creation using Markdown within GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we created a public Github analysis repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis) with continuous integration to ensure analysis reproducibility.
We additionally created a public GitHub manuscript repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript) with ManuBot [@url:https://manubot.org/ ; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007128] integration to enable manuscript creation using Markdown within GitHub.
```

Author: updated

We maintained a data release folder on Amazon S3 containing merged files for each analysis, downloadable from the GitHub repository or open access CAVATICA project.  

<!-- TODO: Stub for the process for contributing analytical code (**Figure {@fig:FigS1}** and **STAR Methods**) and to the manuscript. -->

> ![**Figure 1. Overview of the OpenPBTA Project.** A, The Children's Brain Tumor Network and the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-oncology Consortium collected tumor samples from 943 patients. To date, 38 cell lines were created from tumor tissue and over 2000 specimens were sequenced (N = 1035 RNA-Seq, N = 940 WGS, and N = 32 WXS or Targeted panel). Data was harmonized by the Kids First Data Resource Center using an Amazon S3 framwork within CAVATICA. B, Processed data was released through the OpenPBTA GitHub project, through which contributors filed issues andd developed code for additional analyses within docker. Additional analysis details can be found in **Figure {@fig:FigS1}**. Simultaneously, this manuscript was written in GitHub using Manubot. All analysis and manuscript code was reviewed and continuously integrated using CircleCI. C, Stacked bar plot summary of the number of biospecimens per phase of therapy  per broad histology.](images/main/Figure1.png){#fig:Fig1}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![**Figure 1. Overview of the OpenPBTA Project.** 
(A), The Children's Brain Tumor Network and the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Consortium collected tumor samples from 943 patients. 
To date, 38 cell lines were created from tumor tissue and over 2000 specimens were sequenced (N = 1035 RNA-Seq, N = 940 WGS, and N = 32 WXS or Targeted panel). 
Data was harmonized by the Kids First Data Resource Center using an Amazon S3 framework within CAVATICA. 
(B), Processed data was released through the OpenPBTA GitHub project, specifically in the OpenPBTA-analysis repository, through which contributors filed issues and developed code for additional analyses within a Docker contain.
Additional analysis details can be found in **Figure {@fig:FigS1}**. 
Simultaneously, this manuscript was written in GitHub using Manubot in the accompanying OpenPBTA-manuscript repository. 
All analysis and manuscript code was reviewed by pediatric cancer experts and analytical code experts and continuously integrated using CircleCI. 
(C), Stacked bar plot summary of the number of biospecimens per phase of therapy per cancer group.](images/main/Figure1.png){#fig:Fig1}
```

Reviewer: Ok, there were some typos in here, so I'll put a new suggestion in.

We then harnessed the benchmarking efforts of the Kids First Data Resource Center to develop a robust and reproducible data analysis workflow within the CAVATICA platform to perform the following primary somatic analyses: variant calling of single nucleotide variants (SNVs), copy number variants (CNVs), structural variants (SVs), and fusions (**Figure S1}** - red boxes and **STAR Methods**). 
Next, we created a public Github analysis repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis) with continuous integration to ensure analysis reproducibility.
We additionally created a GitHub manuscript repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript) with ManuBot [@url:https://manubot.org/ ; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007128] integration to enable manuscript creation using Markdown within GitHub.
We maintained a data release folder on Amazon S3 containing merged files for each analysis, downloadable from the GitHub repository or open access CAVATICA project.  

<!-- TODO: Stub for the process for contributing analytical code (**Figure {@fig:FigS1}** and **STAR Methods**) and to the manuscript. -->

> ![**Figure 1. Overview of the OpenPBTA Project.** A, The Children's Brain Tumor Network and the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-oncology Consortium collected tumor samples from 943 patients. To date, 38 cell lines were created from tumor tissue and over 2000 specimens were sequenced (N = 1035 RNA-Seq, N = 940 WGS, and N = 32 WXS or Targeted panel). Data was harmonized by the Kids First Data Resource Center using an Amazon S3 framwork within CAVATICA. B, Processed data was released through the OpenPBTA GitHub project, through which contributors filed issues andd developed code for additional analyses within docker. Additional analysis details can be found in **Figure S1**. Simultaneously, this manuscript was written in GitHub using Manubot. All analysis and manuscript code was reviewed and continuously integrated using CircleCI. C, Stacked bar plot summary of the number of biospecimens per phase of therapy  per broad histology.](images/main/Figure1.png){#fig:Fig1}

Reviewer: Same suggestions for a couple typos (like `framwork`) phrasing, but _not_ OPSL.

```suggestion
![**Figure 1. Overview of the OpenPBTA Project.** 
(A) The Children's Brain Tumor Network and the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Consortium collected tumor samples from 943 patients. To date, 38 cell lines were created from tumor tissue and over 2000 specimens were sequenced (N = 1035 RNA-Seq, N = 940 WGS, and N = 32 WXS or Targeted panel). Data was harmonized by the Kids First Data Resource Center using an Amazon S3 framework within CAVATICA. (B) Processed data was released through the OpenPBTA GitHub project, specifically in the OpenPBTA-analysis repository, through which contributors filed issues and developed code for additional analyses within a Docker contain. Additional analysis details can be found in **Figure {@fig:FigS1}**.  Simultaneously, this manuscript was written in GitHub using Manubot in the accompanying OpenPBTA-manuscript repository. All analysis and manuscript code was reviewed by pediatric cancer experts and analytical code experts and continuously integrated using CircleCI. (C) Stacked bar plot summary of the number of biospecimens per phase of therapy per cancer group.](images/main/Figure1.png){#fig:Fig1}
```

Author: Ah I think I missed that because when it went to OSPL, it showed the entire thing as different, rather than the word. Are there typos other than "framework here"? because it went back to a new line. I hadn't used parentheses in any figure, hence not accepting those. Maybe we save that for copy edit? I also tend to bold those, but this isn't the right place anyway because I think this will all go away in the submission and what is the important figure legend would be in the administrative doc.

Author: I also unlinked S1, but I see you re-linked it. We are going to not link supplemental figures, right?

Author: ok, found it

Reviewer: Sorry didn't mean to re-link! 
The other important typos were "andd" and capitalizing "O" in "Pacific Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Consortium"

The Children’s Brain Tumor Tissue Consortium (CBTTC), currently the Children’s Brain Tumor Network (CBTN), opened its protocol for brain tumor and matched normal sample collection in 2011 and as such, the majority of the samples within the OpenPBTA dataset lack molecular subtype annotation. 
In the absence of methylation arrays for tumor classification, we utilized key genomic features of entities described by the WHO in 2016, as well as Ryall and colleagues [@doi:10.1016/j.ccell.2020.03.011], coupled with clinician and pathologist review to subtype 64% (1,281/2,007) of tumor biospecimens with high confidence (**Supplemental Table S1**).
Importantly, this collaborative molecular subtyping process allowed us to identify data entry errors (e.g., an ETMR entered as a medulloblastoma) and mis-identified specimens (e.g., Ewing sarcoma sample labeled as a craniopharyngioma), update diagnoses using modern terms (e.g., primitive neuro-ectodermal tumor [PNET] diagnoses), and discover rarer tumor entities within the OpenPBTA (e.g., H3-mutant ependymoma, meningioma with _YAP1::FAM118B_ fusion).

> **Table 1** {#tbl:subtypes} lists the subtypes we defined within the OpenPBTA, comprising of LGATs (N = 476), high-grade gliomas (N = 314), glialneuronal tumors (N = 14), medulloblastomas (N = 190), chordomas (N = 12), ependymomas (N = 65), other embryonal (N = 39), craniopharyngiomas (N = 51), neurocytoma (N = 6), gangliogliomas (N = 93), and Ewing sarcoma (N = 21). For methods, see **STAR Methods** and **Figure S1**. 

Author: hmm seems we are both wrong, and this was likely written before the table was generated. I can update this to match the table. Above, we also wanted to remove the "To be classified" tumors because they were not actually subtyped. In addition, I was calculating based on biospecimen rather than tumor (sample_id), which I can also mention. 

```
subtypes <- read_tsv("~/Documents/GitHub/OpenPBTA-analysis/tables/results/Table1-molecular-subtypes.tsv")
hist <- unique(subtypes$broad_histology)
for (each in hist) {
  print(each)
select_subtypes <- subtypes %>%
 filter(broad_histology == each)
  print(sum(select_subtypes$n))
  }
[1] "Chordoma"
[1] 12
[1] "Diffuse astrocytic and oligodendroglial tumor"
[1] 314
[1] "Embryonal tumor"
[1] 229
[1] "Ependymal tumor"
[1] 65
[1] "Low-grade astrocytic tumor"
[1] 569
[1] "Mesenchymal non-meningothelial tumor"
[1] 21
[1] "Neuronal and mixed neuronal-glial tumor"
[1] 20
[1] "Tumors of sellar region"
[1] 51
```

> **Table 1** {#tbl:subtypes} lists the subtypes we defined within the OpenPBTA, comprising of LGATs (N = 476), high-grade gliomas (N = 314), glialneuronal tumors (N = 14), medulloblastomas (N = 190), chordomas (N = 12), ependymomas (N = 65), other embryonal (N = 39), craniopharyngiomas (N = 51), neurocytoma (N = 6), gangliogliomas (N = 93), and Ewing sarcoma (N = 21). For methods, see **STAR Methods** and **Figure S1**. 

Reviewer: Ok, this is good. We have this record in case data changes later.
